one of the coolest features in CorelDraw
is the artistic media tool there are
various functions but what we want to
talk about is the object sprayer and how
it allows you to take vector graphics
and spray them along a path so what I
want to do is first show you how it
works I'm gonna select the artistic
media tool you'll find it in your
drawing tools flyout it's the fourth one
down or the I shortcut key and even
though this example uses CorelDraw x6
this works in previous versions as well
so with the tool I want to choose the
sprayer the other ones do cool stuff too
but today we're focused on the sprayer
once I've selected the sprayer I can
choose the category of sprayer and I
have a custom group here called stitches
oh one and that's what I want to focus
on today if you want to explore these
other categories they are supplied with
CorelDraw stitches o1 allows you to
paint with stitches but it is an add-on
product so we'll select it and then once
I've selected it I'm gonna choose which
one I want so let's scroll down here and
let's grab this guy right here and I'm
just gonna draw a wavy line and you'll
see this stitch I selected is drawn
along that line so that's pretty darn
cool but many times you're going to have
an existing line and you simply want the
stitches applied to it so let's go ahead
and delete that object and let's bring
up the artistic media docker so I've got
a picture of a shirt here and we'll
bring up the docker window Dockers
artistic media and it comes up just fine
let's scroll back over I've created
myself a little cheat sheet so I know
exactly what I want to do so I want to
take this red line on the sleeve and I
want to change it to a variety of
different stitches
I'm gonna scroll down through my list of
strokes and I've got quite a few add-on
brushes and object sprayers installed so
I've got a long list the one I'm looking
for
is this guy right here this is a
straight stitch and I'm gonna simply
double click on it and you can see it's
applied it to that line now it may be
kind of hard to see right now so let's
zoom in so you can see that nice stitch
pattern going around around my sleeve
there so let's zoom back out so we can
fit the whole thing and again I'm going
to select it and this time I want to
change that straight stitch to an
overlock stitch that's this guy right
here so we'll double click and again
let's zoom in so you can see it and
that's pretty amazing how it does that
if you want you can select it again
and this time we're gonna do a different
stitch and quite honestly I can't
remember what's next so let's go ahead
and zoom out so we can see everything
and I want to double row so again I've
got my little cheat sheet that shows
it's this guy right here
in fact it's this one so let's go ahead
and double click on that and zoom in one
last time so we can see it and you'll
see the double row of stitching now it
does go outside the sleeve just a hair
so what I might want to do is adjust my
original line so that doesn't occur but
what I want to do first is change the
color so right now you'll see it's black
because they were designed as black but
if I click on red I can fill those
objects with red and change the stitch
to whatever I wanted and because with my
shape tool I can edit the original line
let's go ahead and find that original
line it's probably easier to see in
wireframe so there we go we'll select it
there now let's go back to enhanced view
so you can see it so if I don't want
that overlap I simply move my node just
a hair and that way it doesn't stick out
so you can adjust these after they've
been applied however you want
but the key thing I want you to
understand is exactly how easy it is to
apply a hundred and one different stitch
patterns to lines in CorelDraw
you